#summary FAQ - using tabs
#sidebar Index
{{{
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) - using tabs
--------------------------------------------------------------------------


Q:  When I run mrxvt with multiple tabs, why does the output of the `w' command
    shows many users are using the system?

A:  This is because each mrxvt tab logs itself in an entry of the utmp file. If
    you do not want this feature, remove the setuid permission from mrxvt binary
    and do not build mrxvt with utempter support.

-----

Q:  How to start mrxvt with multiple tabs initially?

A   You can set the number of tabs you want in ~/.mrxvtrc as the following
    example:

	mrxvt.initProfileList:  0,0,0

    Alternatively, you can set it using command line option -ip.

-----

Q:  How do I let each tab execute different applications when mrxvt starts?

A:  You can set command for each tab in ~/.mrxvtrc as the following example:

	Mrxvt.profile1.background:	#000040
	Mrxvt.profile1.command:	!mc
	Mrxvt.profile1.tabTitle:	"Midnight Commander"

	Mrxvt.profile2.command: 	telnet www.mitbbs.com
	Mrxvt.initProfileList:  	0,1,2

    This will open three tabs on startup containing the shell, mc and telnet.
    See /etc/mrxvt/mrxvtrc.sample for a more complete example.

    If you only want to change the tab command in other tabs (and not the
    background / saveLines etc), then you can use the NewTab macro as follows:

	Mrxvt.macro.Ctrl+Shift+F1:	NewTab "man mrxvt" man mrxvt
	Mrxvt.macro.Ctrl+Shift+b:	NewTab bash
	Mrxvt.macro.Ctrl+Shift+v:	NewTab "Vim" !vim

-----

Q:  How to change the title of a tab after mrxvt starts?

A:  You can select some text in the mrxvt terminal and press the hot key
    combinations: Ctrl+Shift+s, Shift+Delete or middle click with the mouse. The
    tab title will be changed to the selected text. Currently, the selected text
    must be in the same mrxvt terminal.

    You can also change the tab title through escape sequence.
    
	$ echo -ne "\e]62;New tab title\a"

    Alternately use compile settitle.c, or use the perl script mrxvtset.pl.
-----

Q:  How do I set the tab title to the current command?

A:  Bash users add the following to your ~/.bashrc:

    # Change the window title of X terminals 
    if [[ $TERM =~ "xterm|rxvt" ]]; then
	# set -o functrace
	if [[ -n $MRXVT_TABTITLE ]]; then
	    trap 'echo -ne "\e]61;${BASH_COMMAND//\"/} (${PWD/$HOME/~})\a"' DEBUG
	else
	    trap 'echo -ne "\e]0;${BASH_COMMAND//\"/} (${PWD/$HOME/~})\a"' DEBUG
	fi
    fi

    Alternately (for tcsh), if you want your current command displayed in
    your tab title, add the following lines to your ~/.tcshrc

	# Change the window title of X terminals 
	set backslash_quote
	if( $?DISPLAY && $?TERM ) then
	    if( $?MRXVT_TABTITLE ) then
		# Set the tab title for mrxvt
		alias jobcmd 'echo -n \\\\033]61\;\!#:q  \($cwd\) \\\\007 > /dev/stderr'
		alias cwdcmd 'echo -n \\\\033]61\;\!#:q  \($cwd\) \\\\007 > /dev/stderr'
	    else
		# Set the window title for xterm
		alias jobcmd 'echo -n \\\\033]0\;\!#:q  \($cwd\) \\\\007 > /dev/stderr'
		alias cwdcmd 'echo -n \\\\033]0\;\!#:q  \($cwd\) \\\\007 > /dev/stderr'
	    endif
	endif
	unset backslash_quote

-----

Q:  How to dynamically change the title of the mrxvt window so that it is the
    same as the current active tab when I switch to a new tab?

A:  You can set X resources `syncTabTitle' to true or run mrxvt with -stt
    option.

-----

Q:  Why cannot I close a tab? The close button is grey!

A:  Most probably, you have enabled the protectSecondary resource and you are
    running an application, like vi and mc that is using the secondary screen in
    the current tab. Mrxvt considers this tab being protected and disallows you
    to close it. To close the tab, please exit the application first. To disable
    this option, you can modify the ~/.mrxvtrc file or run mrxvt with +ps
    option.

-----

Q:  Is there any keyboard combination to manipulate the tabs?

A:  Yes. Please read the man page. Mrxvt currently support the default
    gnome-terminal and konsole combinations. If you prefer your own
    combinations, you can define them in the configuration file as well. Please
    refer to the man page for details.

-----

Q:  Can I change the color of tab background and text?

A:  Yes you can. You can use command line option to set foreground and
    background color of active or inactive tabs like this:

	$ mrxvt -tabfg blue -tabbg grey -itabfg black -itabbg dark
	
    Or you can set them in ~/.mrxvtrc like this:

	! text color of active tab
	Mrxvt.tabForeground:  blue
	! background color of active tab
	Mrxvt.tabBackground:  grey
	! text color of inactive tab
	Mrxvt.itabForeground: black
	! background color of inactive tab
	Mrxvt.itabBackground: dark

    Or you can use an escape sequence to change it dynamically (see the man
    page).

-----

Q:  I notice that sometimes there is a dash-dot frame around the title of
    inactive tabs. What has happened? Is it a bug?

A:  This is a new feature introduced from 0.3.9. This indicates that something
    has happened in the inactive tab, and you probably should check it.

    You can try using the -htb option to ensure that inactive tabs are
    highlighted only when a bell is sounded by that tab.

-----

Q:  I notice that the inactive tab is highlighted by the dash-dot frame, but
    after I switch to it, I see nothing happened. What is wrong with it?

A:  This is because you might be running some programs in the inactive tab, like
    pine. These programs have some features to refresh the screen periodically,
    though the content of the screen has not changed. Mrxvt detects the refresh
    and thinks the screen has changed. It is difficult to tell whether the
    content of the screen is truly changed in this case.

    You can try using the -htb option to ensure that inactive tabs are
    highlighted only when a bell is sounded by that tab.

-----

Q:  I like to use command line options to create a new tab in the current mrxvt
    terminal and execute some commands. For example, if I run command `mrxvt
    --new-tab -e pine' in a mrxvt terminal, the current terminal will open a new
    tab and run pine in it. Can you implement it for me?

A:  Unfortunately, no. This is a dangerous feature that can cause serious
    security problems. For details about the security problem, consult to the
    following link:

	http://www.digitaldefense.net/labs/papers/Termulation.txt

    As of mrxvt-0.5.0, you can have macros (or menu items) that open a new tab
    and execute your favourite program in it (but you have to press a key or
    select from a menu in your mrxvt window). Multiple window support is planned
    in the near future, and maybe then something will be done about this issue
    after multiple window support is implemented.

-----
}}}